Day wise Itinerary
Day 1 : Kumbh Mela Ujjain
Arrival at Ujjain Rly Station Check into hotel. After fresh-up visit to Ujjain, situated at the banks of river Shipra. Visit Mahakaleshwar Temple ( One of the twelve Jyothirlingas). Overnight stay at Kumbh Mela Wala camp or hotel.

Meals & Drinks Dinner
Day 2 : Kumbh Mela Ujjain
Morning after breakfast drive for Indore to visit to Omkareshwar, situated on the banks of river Shipra and Maheshwar, This sacred island, shaped like the holiest of all Hindu symbols, 'Om', draws attention of hundreds of pilgrims every year, after this visit Rajarajeshwara temple in Maheshwar, which is famous , renowned and magnificent shrine with 11 Akhanda Jyothi Deepas- the eternal flame lamps glows continuously. Annapurna Temple and Kharjana Ganesh Temple and other places. Overnight stay at hotel at Indore.

Meals & Drinks Breakfast and dinner
Day 3 : Kumbh Mela Ujjain
After breakfast drive to Ujjain and visit to Bhartrihari Caves, Kailadeh Palace, Navagraha Mandir, Triveni, Ram Mandir and evening guest are free to visit Ujjain Kumbh Mela by own. Evening overnight stay at Kumbh Mela Wala camp or hotel at Ujjain.

Hotspots Bhartrihari Caves
Meals & Drinks Breakfast and dinner
Day 4 : Kumbh Mela Ujjain
After early breakfast, check out from the hotel and then depart to the most famous and venerated Shiva Temple, Bade Ganeshaji ka Mandir,Sandeep Mahamuni Ashram ( where Lord Krishna was educated with Balarama and Sudhama from Maharshi Sandipani ). Bharthruhari caves, Harisiddhi Temple, Mangladas Mandi and Mahakaleshwari Shaktipeeth. Later drive to transfer to Rly. Station for return journey.

Meals & Drinks Dinner
This Tour is Offered by
Tuk Tuk Travels
View Profile
    
5/5
Allahabad, Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh, India - 211008
08069247359 (Ext : 426)
XXXXXXXXXX@tourtravelworld.com View Mail ID
About Tuk Tuk Travels
Tuk Tuk Travels is one of the leading travel companies located in Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh. The company is registered as a trade mark and offers inbound and outbound tours, holiday packages, tours by theme and various travel services. The travelers can find varied travel solutions under one roof at highly competitive charges with us. We provide travel services such as car & coach rentals, hotel booking, airline ticketing, rail ticketing, passport & Visa, travel insurance, bus ticketing, cruise services etc. We are also an event organizer and specialize in organizing variety of events. The company is reinforced by a team of experienced professionals who carry a huge liking for traveling. We offer our tours, holiday packages and travel services at excitingly low charges. Tuk Tuk Travels was incorporated in the year 2005 and is owned and managed by Mr. Vani Pati Tripathi, CEO. We offer exhilarating vacations to travelers in Europe, Middle East and Asia. We provide both tailor-made and pre-planned tours and all our tours include sightseeing and adventurous activities. Our tours also feature discounted hotel accommodations, cheap airfares, souvenir gifts and much more. We have deployed our agents in various travel destinations and we can make you explore the travel destinations to last detail.